A1 Adult
 Makes careless mistakes: yes
 Does not read instructions carefully: yes
 Overlooks or misses details: yes
 Too much time needed to complete detailed tasks: yes
 Works too quickly and therefore makes mistakes: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A1 Child
 Careless mistakes in schoolwork: no
 Mistakes made by not reading questions propertly: no
 Overlooks or misses details: no
 Leaves questions unanswered by not reading them propertly: no
 Other comment about careless work: no
 Symptom present? - no
A2 Adult
 Not able to keep attention on tasks for long*: yes
 Quickly distracted by own thoughts or associations: yes
 Difficulty remaining focused during lectures and/or conversations: yes
 Finds it difficult to watch a film through to the end, or to read a book*: yes
 Quickly becomes bored with things*: yes
 Asks questions about subjects that have already been discussed: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A2 Child
 Difficulty keeping attention on schoolwork: no
 Difficulty remaining focused during lectures and/or conversations: no
 Easily distracted: no
 Difficulty concentrating*: no
 Quickly becoming bored of activities*: no
 Symptom present? - no
A3 Adult
 Dreamy or preoccupied: yes
 Difficulty concentrating on a conversation: yes
 Afterwards, not knowing what a conversation was about: no
 Often changing the subject of the conversation: no
 Others saying that your thoughts are somewhere else: yes
 Mind seems elsewhere, even in the absence of any obvious distraction: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A3 Child
 Not knowing what parents/teachers have said: yes
 Dreamy or preoccupied: yes
 Often having to be addressed again: no
 Questions having to be repeated: no
 Symptom present? - yes
A4 Adult
 Starts tasks but quickly loses focus and is easily sidetracked: yes
 Needing a time limit to complete tasks: yes
 Difficulty completing administrative tasks: yes
 Difficultly following instructions from a manual: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A4 Child
 Difficulty following instructions: no
 Starts tasks but quickly loses focus and is easily sidetracked: no
 Not completing things: yes
 Not completing homework or handing it in: no
 Needing a lot of structure in order to complete tasks: no
 Symptom present? - yes
A5 Adult
 Difficultly with planning activities of daily life: yes
 House and/or workplace are disorganised: yes
 Difficulty keeping materials and belongings in order: yes
 Works messy and disorganized: yes
 Planning too many tasks or non-efficient planning: yes
 Regularly booking things to take place at the same time (double-booking): no
 Arriving late: yes
 Fails to meet deadlines: no
 Not able to use an agenda or diary consistently: yes
 Poor sense and management of time: yes
 Creating schedules but not using them: yes
 Needing other people to structure things: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A5 Child
 Difficultly being ready on time: no
 Messy room / desk and/or work: yes
 Difficulty keeping materials and belongings in order: yes
 Difficultly playing alone: no
 Fails to meet deadlines: no
 Arriving late: no
 Poor sense of time: yes
 Difficulty keeping himself/herself entertained: no
 Symptom present? - yes
A6 Adult
 Do the easiest or nicest things first of all: no
 Often postpone boring or difficult tasks: yes
 Postpone tasks so that deadlines are missed: no
 Avoid monotonous work, such as administration: yes
 Avoids preparing reports, completing forms, or reviewing lengthy papers: yes
 Do not like reading due to mental effort: yes
 Avoidance of tasks that require a lot of concentration: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A6 Child
 Avoidance of homework or has an aversion to this: no
 Reads few books or does not feel like reading due to mental effort: no
 Avoidance of tasks that require a lot of concentration: no
 Aversion to school subjects that require a lot of concentration: no
 Often postpones boring or difficult tasks: no
 Symptom present? - no
A7 Adult
 Mislays tools, paperwork, eyeglasses, mobile telephones, wallet, keys, or agenda: yes
 Often leaves things behind: yes
 Loses papers for work: yes
 Loses a lot of time searching for things: yes
 Avoids preparing reports, completing forms, or reviewing lengthy papers: yes
 Stores things away in the wrong place: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A7 Child
 Loses school materials, pencils, books, or other items: yes
 Mislays toys, clothing, or homework: no
 Spends a lot of time searching for things: no
 Comments from parents and/or teacher about things being lost: no
 Symptom present? - no
A8 Adult
 Difficulty shutting off from external stimuli: yes
 After being distracted, difficult to pick up the thread again: no
 Easily distracted by noises or events: yes
 Easily distracted by the conversations of others: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
A8 Child
 In the classroom, often looking outside: yes
 Easily distracted by noises or events: yes
 After being distracted, has difficultly picking up the thread again: no
 Symptom present? - yes
A9 Adult
 Forgets appointments or other obligations: yes
 Needs frequent reminders for appointments: yes
 Forgets to pay bills or to return calls: yes
 Returning home to fetch forgotten things: no
 Forgets to keep or look at daily agenda: yes
 Forgets to do chores or run errands: no
 Symptom present? - yes
A9 Child
 Forgets appointments or instructions: no
 Forgets to do chores or run errands: yes
 Has to be frequently reminded of things: no
 Half-way through a task, forgetting what has to be done: no
 Forgets to take things to school: no
 Leaving things behind at school or at friends’ houses: no
 Symptom present? - no
H/I 1 Adult
 Difficulty sitting still: yes
 Fidgets with the legs no
 Tapping with a pen or playing with something: yes
 Fiddling with hair or biting nails: yes
 Able to control restlessness, but feels stressed as a result: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 1 Child
 Parents often said “sit still” or similar: no
 Fidgets with the legs: no
 Tapping with a pen or playing with something: yes
 Fiddling with hair or biting nails: yes
 Able to control restlessness, but feels stressed as a result: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 2 Adult
 Often leaves his/her place in the office or in the workplace: no
 Never sits still for long, always moving around: no
 Makes excuses in order to be able to walk around: no
 Symptom present? - no
H/I 2 Child
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 3 Adult
 Feeling restless or agitated inside: yes
 Constantly having the feeling that you have to be doing something: yes
 Finding it hard to relax: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 3 Child
 Always running around where it is inappropriate: no
 Climbing on furniture, or jumping on the sofa: yes
 Feeling restless insides: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 4 Adult
 Talks during activities when this is not appropriate: no
 Being loud in all kinds of situations: no
 Difficulty doing activities quietly: no
 Difficultly in speaking softly: no
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 4 Child
 Being loud-spoken during play or in the classroom: no
 Climbing on furniture, or jumping on the sofa: yes
 Unable to watch TV or films quietly: no
 Asked to be quieter or calm down: yes
 Becoming quickly too cocky in public: no
 Symptom present? - no
H/I 5 Adult
 Always busy doing something: yes
 Is uncomfortable being still for extended time, e.g. in restaurants or meetings: yes
 Has too much energy, always on the move: no
 Others find you restless or difficult to keep up with: yes
 Stepping over own boundaries: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 5 Child
 Constantly busy: yes
 Others find you restless or difficult to keep up with: no
 Is uncomfortable being still for extended time: yes
 Excessively active at school and at home: yes
 Has lots of energy: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 6 Adult
 So busy talking that other people find it tiring: no
 Finds it difficult to stop talking: no
 Tendency to talk too much: no
 Not giving others room to interject during a conversation: no
 Symptom present? - no
H/I 6 Child
 Teachers and parents often ask you to be quiet: yes
 Is uncomfortable being still for extended time: yes
 Comments in school reports about talking too much: yes
 Being punished for talking too much: no
 Keeping others from doing schoolwork by talking too much: no
 Not giving others room during a conversation: no
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 7 Adult
 Saying things without thinking first: yes
 Giving people answers before they have finished speaking: no
 Completing other people’s sentences: no
 Symptom present? - no
H/I 7 Child
 Wants to be the first to answer questions at school: yes
 Blurts out an answer even if it is wrong: no
 Interrupts others before sentences are finished: no
 Difficulty waiting for turn during conversations: no
 Symptom present? - no
H/I 8 Adult
 Difficulty waiting in a queue, jumping the queue: no
 Difficulty in patiently waiting in the traffic/traffic jams: no
 Being impatient: yes
 Quickly starting relationships/jobs, or ending/leaving these because of impatience: no
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 8 Child
 Difficultly waiting turn in group activities: yes
 Difficultly waiting turn in the classroom: yes
 Always being the first to talk or act: no
 Becomes quickly impatient: yes
 Difficulty waiting for turn during conversations: no
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 9 Adult
 Being quick to interfere with others: no
 Intrudes on others: no
 Disturbs other people’s activities without being asked, or takes over their tasks: yes
 Comments from others about interference: yes
 Difficulty respecting the boundaries of others: no
 Symptom present? - yes
H/I 9 Child
 Interrupts the games or activities of others: no
 Starts using people’s things without asking or permission: no
 Interrupts the conversations of others: no
 Symptom present? - yes
Criterion B
 Have you always had these symptoms of attention deficit and/or hyperactivity/impulsivity? -- yes
С1 Adult
 Did not complete education/training needed for work: no
 Work below level of education: no
 Tire quickly of a workplace: yes
 Pattern of many short-lasting jobs: yes
 Difficulty with administrative work/planning: yes
 Not achieving promotions: yes
 Under-performing at work: no
 Left work following arguments or dismissal: no
 Symptom present? - yes
C1 Child
 Lower educational level than expected based on IQ: no
 Staying back (repeating classes) as a result of concentration problems: no
 Education not completed / rejected from school: no
 Took much longer to complete education than usual: no
 Difficulty doing homework: no
 Followed special education on account of symptoms: no
 Comments from teachers about behaviour or concentration: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
С2 Adult
 Tire quickly of relationships: yes
 Impulsively commencing/ending relationships: no
 Relationship problems, lots of arguments, lack of intimacy: no
 Financial problems or gambling: no
 Not daring to start a relationship: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
C2 Child
 Frequent arguments with brothers or sisters: yes
 Frequent punishment or hiding: no
 Little contact with family on account of conflicts: no
 Required structure from parents for a longer period than would normally be the case: no
 Symptom present? - no
С3 Adult
 Tire quickly of social contacts: yes
 Difficultly maintaining social contacts: no
 Conflicts as a result of communication problems: no
 Difficulty initiating social contacts: yes
 Low self-assertiveness as a result of negative experiences: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
C3 Child
 Few friends: no
 Being teased: no
 Shut out by, or not being allowed, to do things with a group: no
 Being a bully: no
 Symptom present? - yes
С4 Adult
 Unable to relax properly during free time: yes
 Unable to finish a book or watch a film all the way through: yes
 Being continually busy and therefore becoming overtired: yes
 Tire quickly of hobbies: yes
 Accidents/loss of driving licence as a result of reckless driving behaviour: no
 Sensation seeking and/or taking too many risks: no
 Contact with the police/the courtsd: no
 Binge eating: no
 Symptom present? - yes
C4 Child
 Having to play lots of sport to be able to relax: no
 Tired quickly of hobbies: no
 Sensation seeking and/or taking too many risks: no
 Contact with the police/courts: no
 Increased number of accidents: no
 Symptom present? - yes
С5 Adult
 Uncertainty through negative comments of others: yes
 Fear of failure in terms of starting new things: yes
 Excessive intense reaction to criticism: yes
 Perfectionism: yes
 Symptom present? - yes
C5 Child
 Uncertainty through negative comments of others: yes
 Negative self-image due to experiences of failure: yes
 Excessive intense reaction to criticism: yes
 Perfectionism: yes
 Symptom present? - yes

                Summary table
Adult A
A1. Often fails to give close attention to details, or makes careless mistakes in schoolwork, work or during other activities  --  yes
A2. Often has difficultly sustaining attention in tasks or play activities  --  yes
A3. Often does not seem to listen when spoken to directly  --  yes
A4. Often does not follow through on instructions and fails to finish schoolwork, chores, or duties in the workplace  --  yes
A5. Often has difficulty organizing tasks and activities  --  yes
A6. Often avoids, dislikes, or is reluctant to engage in tasks that require sustained mental effort  --  yes
A7. Often loses things necessary for tasks or activities  --  yes
A8. Often easily distracted by extraneous stimuli  --  yes
A9. Often forgetful in daily activities  --  yes
Total number of criteria Attention Deficit:       9/9
Child A
A1. Often fails to give close attention to details, or makes careless mistakes in schoolwork, work or during other activities  --  no
A2. Often has difficultly sustaining attention in tasks or play activities  --  no
A3. Often does not seem to listen when spoken to directly  --  yes
A4. Often does not follow through on instructions and fails to finish schoolwork, chores, or duties in the workplace  --  yes
A5. Often has difficulty organizing tasks and activities  --  yes
A6. Often avoids, dislikes, or is reluctant to engage in tasks that require sustained mental effort  --  no
A7. Often loses things necessary for tasks or activities  --  no
A8. Often easily distracted by extraneous stimuli  --  yes
A9. Often forgetful in daily activities  --  no
Total number of criteria Attention Deficit:       4/9
Adult H/I
H/I 1. Often fidgets with or taps hands or feet or squirms in seat  --  yes
H/I 2. Often leaves seat in situations when remaining seated is expected  --  no
H/I 3. Often runs about or climbs in situations where it is inappropriate  --  yes
H/I 4. Often unable to play or take part in leisure activities quietly  --  yes
H/I 5. Is often “on the go” acting as if “driven by a motor”  --  yes
H/I 6. Often talks excessively  --  no
H/I 7. Often blurts out an answer before a question has been completed  --  no
H/I 8. Often has difficulty awaiting his or her turn  --  yes
H/I 9. Often interrupts or intrudes on others  --  yes
Total number of criteria Hyperactivity/Impulsivity:       6/9
Child H/I
H/I 1. Often fidgets with or taps hands or feet or squirms in seat  --  yes
H/I 2. Often leaves seat in situations when remaining seated is expected  --  yes
H/I 3. Often runs about or climbs in situations where it is inappropriate  --  yes
H/I 4. Often unable to play or take part in leisure activities quietly  --  no
H/I 5. Is often “on the go” acting as if “driven by a motor”  --  yes
H/I 6. Often talks excessively  --  yes
H/I 7. Often blurts out an answer before a question has been completed  --  no
H/I 8. Often has difficulty awaiting his or her turn  --  yes
H/I 9. Often interrupts or intrudes on others  --  yes
Total number of criteria Hyperactivity/Impulsivity:       7/9

Score form
DSM-5 criterion A (ADHD symptoms)
 Childhood
  Are several (3 or more) symptoms present of A and/or HI? -- yes
 Adulthood
  Is the number of A characteristics ≥ 5? -- yes
  Is the number of H/I characteristics ≥ 5? -- yes
DSM-5 criterion B (age of onset)
 Are there signs of a lifelong pattern of symptoms, starting before the 12th year of age? -- yes
DSM-5 criterion C (pervasiveness) AND Criterion D (impairment)
 The symptoms and the impairment are expressed in at least two domains of functioning
  Adulthood -- yes
  Childhood -- yes
DSM-5 criterion C (pervasiveness) AND Criterion D (impairment)
 The symptoms cannot be (better) explained by the presence of another psychiatric disorder -- yes
 Is the diagnosis supported by collateral information?
  Parent(s)/brother/sister/other, i.e.  -- 
  Partner/good friend/other, i.e.  -- 
  School reports  -- 
  Diagnosis ADHD**  -- yes
   Including Items: 
   -- 314.01 Combined presentation type 
  Severity  --  